# 1. Basic concept

## 1.1 Operators that maybe overloaded

```
+ 		- 		* 		/ 		% 		^
& 		| 		~ 		! 		, 		=
< 		> 		<= 		>= 		++ 		--
<<	 	>> 		== 		!= 		&& 		||
+= 		-= 		/= 		%= 		^= 		&=
|= 		*= 		<<= 	>>= 	[] 		()
-> 		->* 	new 	new [] 	delete 	delete []
```

## 1.2 Operators that cannot be overloaded

```
::		.*		.		?:
```

## 1.3 usage

```c++
data1 + data2;
operator+(data1, data2);

data1 += data2;
data1.operator+=(data2);
```

## 1.4 member or nonmember implementation

1. assignment(`=`), subscript(`[]`), call(`()`), and member access arrow(`->`) operator must be defined as members.
2. compound-assignment operators ordinarily ought to be members.
3. operators that change the state of their object or that are closely tied to their given type--such as increment, decrement, and dereference--usually should be members.
4. symmetric operators--those that might convert either operand, such as the arithmetic, equality, relational, and bitwise operators--usually should be defined as ordinary nonmember functions.
5. IO operators must be nonmember functions

## 1.5 return type

1. logical and relational operators should return `bool`
2. arithmetic operators should return a value of the class type
3. assignment and compound assignment should return a reference to the left-hand operand.

# 2. Input and Output Operators

**should be ordinary nonmember functions, ans usually must ve declared as friends.**

## 2.1 output operator<<

parameter 1: reference to a nonconst ostream object

parameter 2: reference to const of the class type

return: the ostream parameter

```c++
ostream &operator<<(ostream &os, const class_type &item) {
    ...;
    return os;
}
```

## 2.2 input operator>>

parameter 1: reference to the stream from which it is to read

parameter 2: reference to the nonconst object into which to read

return: reference to the given stream

```c++
istream &operator>>(istream &is, class_type &item) {
    is >> item.data;
    if (is) ...;
    else item = class_type();
    return is;
}
```

Input operators must deal with the possibility that the input might fail.

Check once after reading all the data and before using those data.



Some input operators need to do additional data verification.

Usually and input operator should set only the `failbit`.

## 2.3 arithmetic and relational operators

parameters: references to `const`

return: a copy of the local as its result

define the arithmetic operator to use compound assignment

## 2.4 Equality Operators

parameters: reference to const

return: bool

One of the equality or inequality operators should delegate the work to the other.

## 2.5 Relational Operators

if two object are !=, then one object should be < the other

## 2.6 Assignment Operators

return: a reference to its left-hand operand.

Must be defined as member function

Have to free the existing elements and create new ones.

### 2.6.1 compound-assignment operators

return: a reference to its left-hand operand.

not required to be members, ought to be member

define all assignment, including compound assignments in the class.

## 2.7 Subscript operator

return: a reference to the element that is fetched

must be a member function

define both `const` and non`const` versions

## 2.8 Increment and decrement operators

prefix operators should return a reference to the incremented or decremented object

postfix operators should return the old value as a value, not a reference

should be member function

define both the prefix and postfix versions

postfix operators should call its own prefix version to do the actual work and check.

```c++
// prefix 
StrBlobPtr& operator++();
// postfix
StrBlobPtr operator++(int);
```

## 2.9 Member access operators

dereference(*) and arrow(->) operators are often used in classes that represent iterators and in smart pointers classes.

overloaded arrow operator must return either a pointer to a class type or an object of a class type that defines its own operator arrow.

-> must be a member, * usually should be a member

```c++
    std::string& operator*() const {
        auto p = check(curr, "dereference past end");
        return (*p)[curr];
    }
    std::string* operator->() const {
        return & this->operator*();
    }
```

## 2.10 Function-Call operator

must be a member

```c++
struct absInt {
    int operator()(int val) const {
        return val < 0 ? -val : val;
    }
};
```

### 2.10.1 Library-Defined Function Objects

```
plus<Type>  minus<Type>  multiplies<Type>  divides<Type>  modules<Type>  negate<Type>

equal_to<Type>  not_equal_to<Type>  greater<Type>  greater_equal<Type>  less<Type>  less_equal<Type>

logical_and<Type>  logical_or<Type>  logical_not<Type>
```

library function objects guarantees that they can work for pointers

### 2.10.2 Callable objects and `function`

Different callable objects have different type but can have the same call signature.

`function` type in functional header

```c++
function<T> f;  // f is a null function object that can store callable objects with a call signature that is equivalent to the funciton type T (retType(args))
function<T> f(nullptr);
function<T> f(obj);  // store a copy of callable object obj in f
f;	// Use f as a condition; true if f holds a callable object
f(args);  // call the object in f passing args

result_type;	// the type returned by this function type's callable object
argument_type;  // type defined when T has exactly one or two arguments
first_argument_type;
second_argument_type;
```

# 3. Class-type conversions

## 3.1 Conversion Operators

must be member function

no return type and parameters, usually should be const

```c++
operator type() const;
```

### 3.1.1 `explicit` conversion operators

the compiler won't(generally) use an `explicit` conversion operator for implicit conversions.

Exceptions:

- The condition of an `if` , `while`, `do` statement
- The condition expression in a `for` statement header
- An operand to the logical NOT(!), OR(||), or AND(&&) operators
- The condition expression in a conditional(?:) operator

## 3.2 Ambiguous conversions

1. mutual conversions

   class A defines a converting constructor that take an object of class B

   B itself defines a conversion operator to type A

2. define multiple conversions from or to types that are themselves related by conversions (built-in arithmetic types)

3. overloaded functions with the arguments can convert from the same type

4. providing both conversion functions to an arithmetic type and overloaded operators for the same class type may lead to ambiguities between the overloaded operators and the built-in operators.
