data abstraction, inheritance, dynamic binding



# virtual:

The base class defines as `virtual` those functions it expects its derived classes to override.

Any non`static` member function, other than a constructor, may be virtual.

`virtual` keyword appears only on the declaration inside the class and may not be used on a function definition that appears outside the class body.

`virtual` function in base class is implicitly `virtual` in the derived classes as well.

must define every virtual function, regardless of whether it is used.



# pure virtual:

specify a virtual function is a pure virtual by writing `= 0` in place of a function body



# final:

we can prevent a class from being used as a base by following the class name with `final`

any attempt to override a function that has been defined as `final` will be flagged as a error



# protected

a class use `protected` for those members that it is willing to share with its derived classes but want to protect from general access

a derived class member or friend may access the `protected` members of the base class *only* **through a derived object**. The derived class has no special access to the `protected` members of base-class objects



derivation access specifier is to control the access that users of the derived class



a derived class may provide a `using` declaration only for names it is permitted to access



for any given point in your code, if a `public` member of the base class would be accessible, then the derived-to-base conversion is also accessible, and not otherwise.

# Inherited constructor

providing a `using` declaration that names its (direct) base class

does not change the access level of the inherited constructors

---

# Containers and Inheritance

Circumstance: Using a container to store objects from an inheritance hierarchy

Dynamic type is only exist among pointers and reference

So we should define the container to hold pointers(smart pointers) to the base  class

But using pointers means we need to write something like `shared_ptr<BType> ` or `make_shared<BType>`. 

So define a class to hide the ugly code, the `shared_ptr<BType>` will be a member variable in this class, what about `make_shared<BType>` when adding items to the container?

Instead of using `make_shared<BType>`, we use `BType` directly in the function that add item to the container(ex. `add_item`).

We should define a **virtual** function(ex. `clone`) for `BType` class that return a dynamically allocated copy of itself. Use `clone` to transform `BType` or its derived class to a dynamically allocated copy.

---

# How to design OOP Classes?

This hierarchy is easy to understand:

```
          Query_base
         	   |
__________________________________     
    |		   |			|
WordQuery	NotQuery	BinaryQuery
                     _________________
                      |             |
      			  AndQuery		 OrQuery

```

But what about `Query` class?

**Our program will deal with evaluating queries, not with building them. However, we need to be able to create queries in order to run our program.**

`Query q = Query("fiery") & Query("bird") | Query("wind");`

**This problem description implicitly suggests that user-level code won't use the inherited classes directly. Instead, we'll define an interface class named `Query`, which will hide the hierarchy.**



I think you should think in two perspective: 

1. User: when users use this program, what will they see? --- the whole building
2. Developer(Implementation) -- blocks



| ClassName     | Description |
| ------------- | ----------- |
| `TextQuery`   |             |
| `QueryResult` |             |
| `Query q(s)`  |             |
| `q1 & q2`     |             |
| `q1 | q2`     |             |
| `~q`          |             |
|               |             |
| `Query_base`  |             |
| `WordQuery`   |             |
| `NotQuery`    |             |
| `BinaryQuery` |             |
| `OrQuery`     |             |
| `AndQuery`    |             |

