# 1. Function Template

The most fundamental definition: `template <typename T>` + normal  function definition using T.

`template` followed by a **template parameter list**, consider template parameter list as a function parameter list, it is separated by comma with one or more **template parameters**

## type parameter

Above example contains a **type parameter**, type parameter should be preceded by the keyword `class` or `typename`.

The exact type of type parameter is deduced by the compiler, not passed by the user.

## nontype parameter

Apart from type parameter, there also exist **nontype parameter** which represents a value rather than a type. It is preceded by a specific type name.

The exact value of nontype parameter is either deduced by compiler or passed by user. These values must be constant expressions.

If nontype parameter is a pointer or a reference, the value passes to it must have static lifetime.



`inline` and `constexpr` specifier sit between template parameter list and return type.

## code organization

function call <- function declaration, no definition

object of class <- class definition, no member function definition

template instantiation <- template definition

--> 

header file: class definitions, function declarations, function template definitions, class template member function definitions

# 2. Class Template

compiler cannot deduce the value of template parameter, so we must supply the template arguments when we use a class template type, except inside the scope of the class template itself.

member functions defined outside of the class should be like:

```c++
template <typename T>
ret-type Blob<T>::member-name(parm-list) { }
```

Code inside the scope of a class template doesn't need to provide the template arguments. Examples: class definition, member function definition

## friendship and prior declaration

In a word, no matter required or not, always provide a prior declaration. :)

Apart from ordinary friendship between class and class, we can make **type parameter** a friend of class.

```c++
template <typename T> class Bar {
	friend T;
};
```

## Template type aliases

When using `typedef`, we can only use a **type**. So template can not be used with `typedef`.

```c++
typedef Blob<string>  StrBlob;  // Right
typedef Blob<T> TestBlob;  // Wrong
```

But with new standard, we can use `using`:

```c++
template <typename T> using twin = pair<T, T>;
template <typename T> using partNo = pair<T, unsigned>;
```

## static members 

Again, different instantiations of class template are completely different types. So every instantiation of class template has its own `static` members.

When define the static member, we should supply the template definition:

```c++
template <typename T>
size_t Foo<T>::ctr = 0;
```

